---
title: MA2202S Tutorial 4
author: Qi Ji
date: Week 6
...

<!--\let\setminus\smallsetminus-->
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{\, #1 \,\right\}}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left\lvert #1 \right\rvert}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert #1 \right\rVert}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\qed}{\hfill$\square$}
\newcommand{\tagQED}{\tag*{$\square$}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\let\vec\mathbf
\newcommand{\lcm}{\operatorname{lcm}}
\newcommand{\GL}{\operatorname{GL}}
\newcommand{\SL}{\operatorname{SL}}

# Group Homomorphism

> Suppose \(\phi: G \to H\) is a group homomorphism.

## Show that \(\phi(e_G) = e_H\).
\begin{align*}
    e_H \phi(e_G) &= \phi(e_G) \\
    &= \phi(e_G e_G) \\
    &= \phi(e_G) \phi(e_G) \\
    e_H &= \phi(e_G)    \tagQED
\end{align*}

## Show that \(\phi(g^{-1}) = \phi(g)^{-1}\).

By earlier tutorial/homework it suffices to show that
for any \(g\in G\),
\[ \phi(g^{-1}) \phi(g) = e_H \]
which is true because
\begin{align*}
    \phi(g^{-1}) \phi(g)
    &= \phi(g^{-1} g) \\
    &= \phi(e_G) \\
    &= e_H \tagQED
\end{align*}

# Group isomorphism.

i.   \(I\circ I = I\)

ii.  Homework 1.

iii. Homework 1.

# \(\Z/n\Z \cong \mu_n\)

i.  Verify that \(\phi^{-1}\) is given by \(z \mapsto \frac{n}{2\pi i} \log z\).

ii. Let \(k, k' \in \Z/nZ\), verify that

    * Case \(k +_\Z k' < n\), \(\phi(k+k') = e^{2\pi ik/n}e^{2\pi ik'/n}\)
    * Case \(k +_\Z k' \geq n\), then \(\phi(k+k') = \phi(k+_\Z k' -_\Z n) = e^{2\pi i(k+k'-n)/n} = e^{2\pi ik/n}e^{2\pi ik'/n}\)

#
> Let \(\phi: \Z/12\Z \to \Z/12\Z\) be a group isomorphism.

## \(\phi(0) = 0\).
By question 1a.

## \(\phi(6) = 6\).
We have \(\phi(6 + 6) = \phi(0) = 0 = \phi(6) + \phi(6)\).
Verify that in \(\Z/12\Z\), only \(0\) and \(6\) are solutions to the equation \(t + t = 0\),
but as \(\phi\) is an isomorphism \(\phi(6) \neq \phi(0)\), so we have \(\phi(6) = 6\).

## Show that \(\phi(1) \notin \set{2,3,4,6,8,9,10}\)
Let \(x\in \set{2,3,4,6,8,9,10}\), then \(d = \gcd(x,12) > 1\).
Define \(a := \frac{12}{d}\), as \(d > 1\), \(a < 12\).
Since \(ax = \lcm(12,x)\), we have
\begin{align*}
    a x &\equiv 0 \pmod{12} \\
    \underbrace{x + x + \dots + x}_{a\text{ times}} &= 0
\end{align*}
Suppose for a contradiction \(\phi(1) = x\), then
\begin{align*}
    \phi(\underbrace{1 + 1 + \dots + 1}_{a\text{ times}})
    &= \underbrace{x + x + \dots + x}_{a\text{ times}} \\
    \phi(a) &= 0
\end{align*}
but we showed earlier that \(a \ne 0 \in \Z/12\Z\), so this contradicts fact that \(\phi\) is an isomorphism.
\hfill$\square$

## Show that there is a group isomorphism \(\phi\) such that \(\phi(1) = 5\).
As \(\gcd(5,12) = 1\), \(\lcm(5,12) = 60 = 5\times 12\).
So for all \(x\in \set{0,\dots,11}\), \(5x \not\equiv 0 \pmod{12}\).

<p style="font-size:98pt">DO THIS</p>

# \(\GL_n\)

## \(\GL(n,\R)\) is a group

Associative
:   MA1101R

Identity
:   Verify that identity matrix \(I_n\) does what we want and \(\det(I_n) = 1 \ne 0\).

Inverse
:   Linear algebra.

## \(\SL_n\) is a subgroup.
By multiplicativity of determinant, let \(A, B\in \SL_n\), and \(\det(AB^{-1}) = \det(A)\det(B^{-1}) = 1\), win.

# Let \(G = \Z/100\Z\).

## Let \(d \mid 100\), show that \(T = \set{0,d, 2d,\dots, 100-d}\) is a subgroup of \(G\).

Notice that \(100-d = \frac{100}{d} - 1\). Define \(k = \frac{100}{d}\).
Take \(ad, bd\in T\) where \(a,b\in\set{0,1,\dots,k-1}\), then
\begin{align*}
    ad + bd &=
    \begin{cases}
        ad + bd &\text{if } ad + bd < 100 = kd \\
        ad + bd - 100 &\text{otherwise}
    \end{cases} \\
    &=
    \begin{cases}
        (a + b)d &\text{if } a + b < k \\
        (a + b - k)d &\text{otherwise}
    \end{cases} \in T
\end{align*}
similar argument for inverse.

## \(H < G\), \(H \ne \set{0}\), show \(H = T\) and \(d \mid 100\) where \(d = \min(H\setminus\set{0})\).
To show \(d\mid 100\), consider \(\langle d \rangle\), we have \(\abs{\langle d \rangle} \mid 100\)
so there exists an integer which multiplied by \(d\) gives \(100\), so \(d\mid 100\).

\(T = \langle d \rangle \subseteq H\) is clear.
Suppose for a contradiction \(T \subsetneq H\), then take \(h\in H\setminus T\).
By choice of \(d\), \(d < h\). Consider the largest \(x \in \Z\) such that
\[\underbrace{d + d + \dots + d}_{x \text{ times}} < h. \]
LHS and RHS both are in \(H\), so take \(h - xd\) which is still in \(H\) but is a number less than \(d\), this contradicts our choice of \(d\).
\hfill$\square$

