---
title: MA2202S Tutorial 5
author: Qi Ji
date: Week 8
...

<!--\let\setminus\smallsetminus-->
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{\, #1 \,\right\}}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left\lvert #1 \right\rvert}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert #1 \right\rVert}
\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}
\newcommand{\qed}{\hfill$\square$}
\newcommand{\tagQED}{\tag*{$\square$}}
\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}\newcommand{\Q}{\mathbb{Q}}\newcommand{\N}{\mathbb{N}}\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}\newcommand{\F}{\mathbb{F}}\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\let\vec\mathbf
\newcommand{\lcm}{\operatorname{lcm}}
\newcommand{\sgn}{\operatorname{sgn}}
\newcommand{\GL}{\operatorname{GL}}
\newcommand{\SL}{\operatorname{SL}}

# Computation

1 2: compute everything

3 4 5: express as disjoint cycles and lcm them.

# Computation'

compute

# Sign

i. Change of variable (let \(y_i = h(x_i)\)).

ii. Substitution (sub \(x_i = f(i)\)).

# Odd even

i. compute

ii. Because \(\sgn\) is a function

iii. because \((12)(12) = \operatorname{id}\)

iv. because \(\abs{A_n} = \abs{C}\) and by part 2 each must be half as big as \(S_n\).

# Only 2 cosets implies normal subgroup

Let any \(n\in N\), then for any \(g \in G\), we have two case,

1. \(gn \in N = eN\),
2. \(gn \in C\) where \(C\) is the "other" coset.

We consider the term \(gng^{-1}\), in the first case,
\begin{align*}
    ng^{-1} &= ( \underbrace{gn^{-1}}_{\text{in }N} )^{-1} \\
    gng^{-1} &= g n' \text{ for some }n' \in N \\
    &\in N
\end{align*}
and in the second case, we first claim that \(C = gN = g^{-1} N\),
for suppose not, then \(g^{-1}N = N\) which entails that \(eN = g(g^{-1}N) = C\).
\begin{align*}
    ng^{-1} &= ( \underbrace{gn^{-1}}_{\text{in }C} )^{-1} \\
    &= g^{-1} n' \text{ for some }n' \in N \\
    gng^{-1} &= n' \in N
\end{align*}
\(N\) is normal in both cases, as the previous question demonstrated that the only cosets of \(A_n\) are itself and \(C\),
we have \(A_n\) is a normal subgroup.

# Conjugates.

i. Refl, Sym, Trans.

ii. Suppose \(g' \sim g\), then unravel definition of \(C_G(g)\) to show that \(g' \in C_G(g)\).

iii. Straight from part i

# 

By normality, the condition \(C_G(g) \subseteq N\) is satisfied.

# Cycles

...
